Manchester City guilty charges explained: Premier League's options, how appeal works
Source: ESPN
Author: James Olley
Date: 1 October 2026

Manchester City's guilty verdict on 114 charges of breaking Premier League financial rules is a landmark moment in global sport. City continues to assert their innocence and have signaled their intention to appeal before Friday's deadline. But the Independent Commission's verdict could hardly have been more damning, accusing the club of "sham" contracts involving its Abu Dhabi owners as part of a "disguised funding scheme" that contributed to inflating revenues and reducing costs by over 900 million pounds. Witnesses in City's defense were accused of dishonesty, and the club was found to have "clearly intended to circumvent" Premier League rules.

The breaches relate specifically to a nine-year period (2009-18), but the shockwaves permeate far beyond. Pep Guardiola's trophy-laden legacy is in doubt. The Premier League's reputation and viability is in the balance. Rivals may seek retribution through compensation claims, triggering challenges that could last for years.

Meanwhile, City's punishment is yet to be determined. Under Section W, Rule 54 of the Premier League's Handbook, they are facing a punishment ranging from a reprimand to expulsion. There could be a fine, a points deduction and a transfer ban.

City's aggressive protestations of innocence only contribute to the widespread uncertainty and reduces the likelihood of all parties coming together to reach agreement on a settlement for the time being. ESPN has spoken with one of the United Kingdom's leading law firms, Howard Kennedy, in pursuit of clarity. Partners Kyle Phillips and Lois Langton head the firm's sports group.

On the commission's findings, Phillips said it was worse than many people expected, that the language used was very strong. "Sham" is one point, along with the "disguised funding scheme," overstating commercial revenue, and the amounts involved. He noted it is a strong statement to say you find witness evidence to be "dishonest," a powerful word in any decision that takes a lot to use in regulatory proceedings. Langton said every paragraph felt as though it had been very carefully worded to try and limit the scope of any inevitable appeal, recognising that Manchester City would want to appeal.

On City's "irrefutable evidence," Phillips said he would expect that evidence to have already been presented, and that reading between the lines, City are arguing the commission misunderstood the complexities around the accounting. This was the same narrative and defense they relied upon with UEFA, but the commission rejected it. Langton noted the commission found the supporting witnesses in the main to give false and dishonest evidence.

On an appeal, Phillips said City would need proper grounds, demonstrating the commission had misapplied the law, acted in bad faith, misunderstood the facts, or come to a conclusion no reasonable commission could reach. New evidence could be produced only if it could be shown it wasn't available previously, which he thought unlikely given how long City had to prepare.

On next steps, a new three-person panel would hear any appeal, while the sanction process could continue in parallel. The Premier League has been bullish, issuing a statement calling the commission's decision the "final award."

On sanctions, Phillips said there had never been anything on this scale. There would surely be a substantial fine reflecting both the breaches and the failure to cooperate. A points deduction is available, as is expulsion, though the Premier League can't relegate City directly as it has no authority over the EFL. Langton noted the balance between punishing the club and the serious consequences of expulsion for all the people employed by Manchester City.

On wider fallout, Phillips said other litigation could be huge, coming from anyone in the Premier League who feels impacted, teams that missed out on the league or Europe, teams that were relegated, and individuals claiming reputational damage. "This just opens up a whole can of worms and everybody will be taking legal advice who has in some way had any sort of impact from what they'll say is Man City cheating."

On routes beyond the Premier League process, Phillips said City cannot go to CAS, and the High Court would require showing the whole process was unlawful, a high bar.
